# DragNDroper

Computer programming is a complex and rapidly developing field. Most educational programs try to present the material in structured theoretical style, but unfortunately this leads to too abstract and boring classes that pushes students back from future interest in programming. On the other hand interaction with the computers in the learning process has not changed for the last decades and the use of mouse and keyboard becomes unattractive compared to the new technologies. All that results in unmotivated and passive students that are just waiting for the lessons’ end. 

The main purpose of the DragNDroper project is to present easy to use and intuitive environment for creating computer programs. It will be designed to be used by primary and secondary school students to learn how to create computer programs and work with abstract models in fun and interactive way. Moreover, it will help them in their career orientation by introducing the world of programming. To achieve this the application is going to provide two modes - “Learn” and “Playground”. In “Learn” mode, the users are going to be walked through step-by-step interactive tutorials with game elements, designed to teach them how to program. In “Playground” mode the user will be able to  freely write and execute computer programs.

By providing interactive way of learning to program we are stimulating the creativity in young people. Giving them intuitive and fun way to express their ideas results in more productive environment in the whole educational system. This is not only a prerequisite for early career orientation in the field of informatics and software engineering, but it is also a guarantee for more curious and energetic students as a whole.

Since we want our product to be massive and impactful, we’ve decided that the web should be it’s main playground, making it accessible all over the world. However, having in mind the growing popularity of mobile technologies, we believe it would be a good idea to provide a separate application that targets this specific platform. This way we could take advantage of the unique features it presents and enhance the quality of our product. In order to make it as interactive and fun as possible, we’ll involve Kinect in the process, allowing us to take new, revolutionary approach for programming.

Our plan is to approach this project utilizing the latest cutting-edge technologies in order to build something truly amazing. Engaging the Kinect and Windows Phone SDKs will help us develop for these powerful platforms providing us with lots of unique features. We'll be using HTML5 and JavaScript to lay out the web interface of the application while the business logic will be entirely handled by C# and the ASP.NET MVC framework. To further scale everything, we’ll bring it to the cloud relying on Windows Azure.

We are going to start our market penetration by targeting the after-school programming education programmes as our early adopters. The students there are already interested in this area, and presenting them this new intuitive and fun way of doing what they like, will be met by high levels of excitement and enthusiasm. Also, by collecting statistics for the performance of the students using this project, we are going to end up with great marketing materials for targeting other educational institutions - public and private primary and secondary schools.

In the end, we are highly motivated to create the platform, that will light the way for the brightest engineers of the future.

